8.0 Model Execution 
===================

The “\ *Run*\ ” menu validates the model parameters, generates the data
set, and launches the model simulation.

8.1 Validate
-------------

The “\ *Validate*\ ” function in the “\ *Run*\ ” drop-down menu checks
all the model inputs before model files are created. Selecting
*“Validate”* from the *“Run”* drop-down menu opens the *“Validate
Model”* dialog box, which has two tabs: “\ *General”* and *“Extend.”* On
the *“General”* tab (Figure 8.1), general information about the model is
displayed, such as the number of nodes and elements.

.. figure:: media/figure_8_1_manual.png
   :width: 5.69792in
   :height: 7.21875in
   :align: center

   Figure 8.1 The “\ *General*\ ” tab in the “\ *Validate Model*\ ” dialog
   box

The *“Extend”* tab (Figure 8.2) contains additional information about
the model, such as boundary conditions and mining information. Reviewing
the information on both of these tabs is strongly recommended to ensure
that the model has been defined correctly.

.. figure:: media/figure_8_2_manual.png
   :width: 5.69792in
   :height: 7.21875in
   :align: center

   Figure 8.2 The “\ *Extend*\ ” tab in the “\ *Validate Model*\ ” dialog
   box

Clicking the *“Validate”* button at the bottom of the dialog box checks
all the inputs to the model. If there is an error in an input, then it
is listed in red in a pop-up window; if not, then no errors are listed
(Figure 8.3). The user is advised to fix all errors prior to running the
model. If there are no errors, then the model is ready for the
simulation. Click “\ *OK*\ ” to close the *“Validate Model”* dialog box.

.. figure:: media/figure_8_3_manual.png
   :width: 5.43750in
   :height: 2.62500in
   :align: center

   Figure 8.3 A completed model validation

8.2 Create Data Set
-------------------

To create the data set for a model run, select “\ *Create Data Set*\ ”
from the “\ *Run*\ ” drop-down menu. The “\ *Choose a Simulation
Directory*\ ” window opens. Choose a folder to store all the input files
created and then click the “\ *Select Folder*\ ” button.

Entering input to the numerical portion of **MINEDW** is accomplished
by reading model-input files that define the groundwater problem to be
simulated. Depending on the complexity of the problem, as many as 18
input files are necessary to run a **MINEDW** model simulation. For
relatively simple problems, many of the files contain a zero, indicating
that the input for that part of the simulation does not apply. The
**MINEDW** program uses the files listed below for per­form­ing
simulations.

CHEAD.DAT — File containing constant-head conditions information.

ELM.FEM — File containing finite-element mesh incidences.

ELEMENTK.DAT — File containing elements that change hydraulic parameters
over time.

EVAP.DAT — File containing evapotranspiration package input.

FAULT.DAT — File containing fault internal conditions information (file
defining where nodes are “linked” to simulate hydraulic connection).

FILE.FEL — Lists all of the input files used for the simulation.

FLUX.DAT — File containing variable-boundary conditions information.

KFILE.DAT — File containing aquifer properties for different
hydrogeologic zones.

MINING.DAT — File containing pit-plan data.

MODEL.DAT — Main input file containing simulation parameters, output
controls, grid, and solver parameters.

NODE.FEM — File containing finite-element mesh (nodes) coordinates.

PARA.FEM — File containing hydrogeologic-zone specifications.

PUMP.DAT — File containing pumping data that define where, when, and how
much pumping is simulated.

PUMPWELLS.DAT — File containing pumping-well information such as node
number, number of pump, screen interval, and pumping time-series data
(rate and date).

RECHARGE.DAT — File containing recharge package input.

RIVER.DAT — File containing river package input.

TIMESTEP.DAT — File containing time-step length information.

WATERLEVEL.DAT — File containing initial water-level data.

8.3 Execute
-----------

To run the simulation, select “\ *Execute*\ ” from the “\ *Run*\ ”
drop-down menu on the Main Menu banner at the top of the screen. The
“\ *Choose a Working Directory*\ ” window opens. Choose the folder
containing the input files and click “\ *Select Folder*.” A window like
that shown in Figure 8.4 opens. The simulation’s progress is shown at
the top of the window. Any errors that are not fatal are displayed in
red in the progress window on the left. The file “MINEDW.ERR” can also
be reviewed after each model run to view any errors. The *“Abort”*
button will terminate the simulation, while the *“Output Current
Result”* button will print the current simulation results to the
appropriate output files.

.. figure:: media/figure_8_4_manual.png
   :width: 6.00000in
   :height: 3.18563in
   :align: center

   Figure 8.4. Screen display of output from the model run